# Python scripts to predict KEGG module completion and gene presence/absence
## Info 
These scripts parse KEGG k-terms from EggNOG output. They compare these k-terms against databases obtained from KEGG API to estimate KEGG module completion, and gene counts per BRITE category or pathway.

## Module checker script
### Input
The script takes 3 inputs: The .emapper.annotations output generated by EggNOG, the desired name/path of the script's output file, and the KEGG module database, which can be generated with the corresponding script from:  
https://github.com/ECBSU/genomics-scripts/tree/main/Functional-annotation/KEGG_pathways/in-house_KEGG_annotation/Database_generation

The command used to run the script is:
```
(python) KEGGstand_module_checker.py input.emapper.annotations output_file KEGG_module_database
```

### Output
Writes a tab-delimited text file. The first column of the file represents the module name (and entry code), the second column the highest completion found for this module, and the last column is a comma-delimited list of the genes that comprised the most complete pathway found.

## BRITE checker script
### Input
The script takes 3 inputs: The .emapper.annotations output generated by EggNOG, the desired name/path of the script's output file, and the KEGG gene database, which can be generated with the corresponding script from:  
https://github.com/ECBSU/genomics-scripts/tree/main/Functional-annotation/KEGG_pathways/in-house_KEGG_annotation/Database_generation

The command used to run the script is:
```
(python) KEGGstand_BRITE_checker.py input.emapper.annotations output_file KEGG_k_term_database
```

### Output
Writes a tab-delimited text file. The first column of the file denotes the pathway or BRITE category. The second column shows the number of genes found and the total number of genes in the category in the format: found/total. The categories are listed in hierarchical fashion, with the dashes preceding the entry name denoting they are part of a subcategory. 
